Transforming Networks
in Large Public Venues
Enhancing experiences and operations through innovation

Game Highlights
Venue owners are re-thinking
the way networks are deployed
and managed
They are realizing more efficiencies
through a holistic approach to solving
network and connectivity needs across
the entire complex.
Innovative wireless technology
is transforming the industry with
game changing performance and
cost savings
Venue owners are enabling fan
experiences and services with 5G and
LTE, while leveraging digital wireless

THE DIGITAL SHIFT IN VENUES
As the guest experience in large venues is transforming from a purely physical one
to a combination of physical and digital, the network has become the backbone
of its success. New integrated network functions and services are driving a shift
in design and procurement of network connectivity solutions. As a result, venue
owners are realizing new efficiencies through a holistic approach to solving
network and connectivity needs across large public venues (LPVs).

NETWORKS ARE AT AN INFLECTION POINT

systems for significant cost savings in

Due to the ever-increasing demand of high-bandwidth mobile user applications

equipment, space and power.

such as video sharing, and the proliferation of IoT devices, networks have become
a critical component for LPVs’ revenue generation and cost-effective operations.

Convergence is the network

At the same time, the introduction of network technologies such as Wi-Fi 6, 5G

strategy of the future-and the

and private networks are creating an inflection point that is driving complexity

future is already here

resulting from the need to deploy and manage independent networks and

Delivering multiple network services on

vendors. Together, these forces are causing venue owners to re-think the way

a common infrastructure is critical to

networks are deployed and managed. A transformational approach is needed

meeting the ever-increasing demand

that considers all the network requirements up front and defines a solution that

for bandwidth, and the need to reduce

is flexible and adapts to future needs. Doing this facilitates use of the most

CapEx and OpEx costs.

appropriate technologies and provides the opportunity to leverage a common
infrastructure. These enhanced methods drive cost savings through the reduction
of space, equipment, materials and labor required to deliver a network that meets

“We’ll transform the network

high visitor expectations while minimizing inefficiency and network complexity.

to provide an exceptional

A WINNING STRATEGY

user experience by creating

CommScope’s integrated framework for network connectivity provides a

solutions that are simple,
reliable, and adaptable”

unique alternative that streamlines the transformation journey while improving
network performance and lowering cost. Leveraging our experience with over
250 large public venue implementations worldwide, CommScope is shaping
tomorrow’s large public venue networks with a robust portfolio of Wi-Fi,

Ben Cardwell

switching, distributed antenna systems (DAS), copper, fiber and services to

SVP Venue and Campus Networks,

enable transformation end to end. We work collaboratively with venue owners,

CommScope

consultants, engineers and contractors to meet the evolving needs of the venue
and its stakeholders.

2

Transforming Networks in Large Public Venues

EVOLVING FAN EXPECTATIONS
Large public venues compete for their share of consumer dollars against an
increasingly immersive in-home experience that is fueled by large-screen highresolution displays and audio, social media connectedness, and augmented
reality experiences. To respond, LPV owners and managers are expanding
their core sports/entertainment offerings with new ways to connect with
their brands: social sharing, player stats and betting, and amenities like easy
concession ordering. LPVs must also support complex operations while meeting
public health and safety regulations by controlling congestion, access and
tracking movement of people.
These challenges require robust and high-capacity communication networks
to support multiple different classes of users, services and applications that run
in the network and at the edge. CommScope meets these challenges with a
technology and service portfolio that delivers high performance and cost-saving

250

Large public venue
implementations
world-wide

advantages along with the efficiencies of a single solution provider.

THE GAME PLAN
CommScope’s strategy is to offer – along with our partner network – a unique
combination of products and services. Our team brings together CommScope’s
connectivity solutions and expertise across licensed and unlicensed wireless
spectrum, along with wired infrastructure and cloud-based management
solutions. Our partners provide software and value-added integration services
enhancing the CommScope portfolio by delivering fully integrated network
systems that provide agility, high availability, security, and flexibility of the
network while reducing overall costs. Collectively, our team offers an integrated
capability spanning technology, design, implementation and management to
drive outcomes drawing on our strengths, namely:
•

80%

Reduction in DAS
headend footprint

Complete connectivity portfolio of DAS, Wi-Fi, switching, IoT and cabling
infrastructure

•

Scalable, modular all-digital DAS that delivers massive mobile capacity while
reducing data center (head-end) footprint by up to 80%

•

Patented technology and multi-protocol access points (APs) that eliminate
wireless network silos and maximize Wi-Fi system capacity

•

Converged wired, Wi-Fi and IoT network management platforms that
reduce management complexity and cost up to 40%

•

Design and deployment expertise capable of addressing unique
configuration requirements and reducing project risk, while driving
structured cabling CapEx and OpEx savings up to 20% through a shared
network infrastructure

•

Financial flexibility reducing upfront capital requirements or shifting CapEx
to OpEx entirely.

3

20%

Cost savings in
converged
infrastructure

One platform unlocking
performance today with the
simplicity to realize 5G’s full
potential in the future

UNLOCKING 5G’S POTENTIAL
For LPVs, 5G creates a better user experience and a competitive

HIGH PERFORMING WIRELESS
IN A SMALL FOOTPRINT

advantage. 5G networks enable exciting new services and

Fans now expect to instantly share their experiences with their

applications, such as ultra-high definition video camera angles,

family and friends at the game and their social media network

augmented reality and virtual reality, and player tracking. 5G

around the world. With visitor capacities of up to one hundred

will be a foundation for tomorrow’s LPVs and the spaces that

thousand, venues must deliver reliable bandwidth to meet fan

surround them. For venue owners this represents a massive

expectations on game days. Stadium owners around the world

business opportunity. Many venues are looking for ways

consistently turn to CommScope to meet these high demands for

to interact digitally with their audiences, enabling fans to

their fans’ wireless capacity and coverage needs. With our ERA

experience events in new ways. Now is the time to think about

digital DAS, venue owners realize the following advantages:

and plan for the future of 5G to address these evolving trends.
•

is scalable for future demand

How do you start positioning yourself for the future with 5G? It
begins with keeping in mind that 4G isn’t going away anytime
soon and identifying the possibilities of 5G technologies using
a simplified approach for migration in a cost-effective manner.
According to the GSMA, even by 2025 global 4G connections

•
•

Substantial reduction in power, space, and fiber relative to
analog DAS alternatives, driving down total cost of ownership
(TCO) and reducing the headend footprint up to 80 percent.

identify the possibilities for future 5G applications, identify the
required to support future 5G enabled experiences.

Support for current and emerging technologies
(5G/4G/3G/2G and CBRS)

will outnumber 5G connections by a factor of 2.8 to 11. Begin to
5G performance requirements, and plan for the infrastructure

A platform that meets current bandwidth needs and

•

Advanced capabilities that enable flexible software-defined
capacity allocation across the entire stadium complex.

As the leader in distributed antenna systems2, CommScope
anticipated the challenge years ago. The result is a digital DAS
architecture (ERA) that is “frequency agnostic”, meaning it can
support 3G, 4G/LTE and 5G enabling maximum flexibility today
and into the future. CommScope’s solution delivers multioperator support, massive scalability and maximum investment
protection. CommScope delivers both LTE and 5G service with

“Providing an exceptional experience for our
fans—on the field and in the stands—is a top
priority for the entire Panthers organization,”

the performance, simplicity and economics venue owners and

James Hammond

mobile network operators need to realize 5G’s full business

Director of IT for the Carolina Panthers

potential. CommScope anticipates and innovates to develop the
solutions you need now and prepare you for what’s next.
1

GSMA, The Mobile Economy 2020, at https://www.gsma.com/mobileeconomy/

2

Mobile Experts, LLC, Distributed Antenna Systems, November 2019.

4

Transforming Networks in Large Public Venues

Everyone carries a mobile
device and expects Wi-Fi
connectivity everywhere

Case Study
BANC OF CALIFORNIA WI-FI
There are only a small number of soccer- specific
stadiums in the U.S. One of the newest is the Banc of
California Stadium, home of the Los Angeles Football

SCORING BIG WITH WI-FI

Club (LAFC). Just one of the stadium’s many distinctions

New Wi-Fi 6 technology brings fast, reliable connectivity to ultra-

the attention of major corporations in entertainment,

dense LPV environments, enabling immersive, interactive fan

broadcasting and sports. The centerpiece is the

experiences. Guests can be engaged, rewarded, and impressed

RUCKUS Wi-Fi network, the foundation for delivering

through personalized applications and targeted marketing. A robust

a great wireless experience to LAFC fans.

is its technology infrastructure, which has captured

Wi-Fi platform can enable innovative ways of interacting, creating
new fan engagement opportunities. Additionally, the Wi-Fi network

RUCKUS was chosen as the Wi-Fi vendor of choice for

must deliver a secure and reliable connection that can scale to support

the network. “Frankly, I thought the default would

a wide range of new applications, devices, and use cases.

be Cisco. But we certainly made the right choice
with RUCKUS. RUCKUS Wi-Fi performs flawlessly in

CommScope addresses these challenges with RUCKUS high

this environment. I know that other stadiums have

performance Wi-Fi and switch technology. CommScope continues to

ongoing problems with other Wi-Fi vendors; they can’t

preserve the RUCKUS heritage of Wi-Fi innovation, which includes:

handle the interference, high density usage and other
challenges. In our stadium, we had every intention

•
•

Patented RF performance and radio innovations that improve

of pushing Wi-Fi to its limits. We had to start with

performance for all clients, even ultra-high-density environments

the right foundation, and that was RUCKUS.” Said

Advanced SmartZoneOS network controller architecture for
converged wired and wireless management

•

AI/ML-enabled network analytics and assurance for SLA
management and proactive trouble resolution

•

Christian Lau, VP of Technology for the LAFC.
The RUCKUS solution delivers a great user experience
for mobile oriented soccer fans with 500 indoor and
outdoor access points with 3 RUCKUS ZoneDirector

Experienced in-house RF and LAN design team with

Controllers. The day to day demands on the IT staff are

the latest 3D modeling tools

minimized with a network that allows them to “Set it
and forget it”

CommScope has a vision and understanding of Wi-Fi innovation that
gives customers the confidence the network will easily scale to meet
increasing guest demands. The RUCKUS platform includes privateor public cloud-based controllers along with footfall and presence
analytics to support venue operations and marketing objectives.
A RUCKUS Wi-Fi network delivers the exceptional application
performance for every fan and every client, giving guests the data
when they need it for that great immersive game day digital and
physical experience. No matter where a user is in the venue, they get

“The opening game for the Los
Angeles Football Club (LAFC) included
paratroopers landing on the field,
a falcon circling above the crowd,
and the best Wi-Fi experience of
any stadium in the U.S.”

an amazing connection to venue and team applications for ordering

Christian Lau

food and beverages, merchandise, or checking on their favorite player.

VP of IT for the LAFC

5

Transforming Networks in Large Public Venues

The Internet of Things (IoT) is transforming
the way guests are entertained and
operations maximize resources

SMART IOT PLAYS

UP THE GAME WITH CROWD INTELLIGENCE

Large public venue owners are looking to the Internet of

Using data to drive more revenue and improve operations is

Things (IoT) to transform the way guests are entertained and

presenting new opportunities in LPVs. Guest engagement and

maximize operational efficiency. However, current models for

interaction is being enhanced through knowing their precise

implementing IoT solutions are often complex and expensive.

location in and around the venue. RUCKUS SpoT analytics

Applications can be highly fragmented, relying on multiple

dashboard identifies where crowds are and enables better decision-

wireless connectivity protocols. Smart lighting infrastructure, for

making using data and predictive intelligence. This gives venue

example, might use Bluetooth, while connected environmental

owners and operators powerful insights for planning security,

systems run over Wi-Fi, while smart door locks run over yet

staffing, optimizing traffic flows, and guest services. Social

another protocol like Zigbee. Each connected application

distancing guidelines can also be monitored for compliance and

typically functions as a self-contained system requiring its own

anomalies. Multiple use cases for smart venues are now enabled by

dedicated wireless network and management infrastructure.

location analytics capabilities to:

CommScope makes it easy to integrate Smart Building IoT

•

applications into LPVs, making them safer, greener and more
comfortable. With a growing platform of building automation
solutions, all running over the RUCKUS network with the
RUCKUS IoT Suite, LPV owners and operators can build a flexible
foundation for a world of new IoT experiences. Large public

section, best exit routes, traffic and hot spot flow analysis
•
•
•

Increase customer spend – retail, food & beverage, merchandise
through personalized and context specific advertising

•

Wayfinding to seat & line wait times updates, in-game stats

RUCKUS IoT Suite

Things
1

IoT-ready
APs

2

Transforming Networks in Large Public Venues

Services

3

+

6

Drive new ticket sales from non-season ticket holders with
tailored offers

their venues and have them all run over the same converged
RUCKUS wireless network.

Enhance Public Health – touchless payments, air quality
monitoring, improve contact tracing

venue owners can deploy solutions to optimize comfort and
convenience, safety and security, and resource management in

Improve situation awareness and safety –notifications by

Network
Controller

+
RUCKUS IoT
Modules

4

RUCKUS IoT
Controller

Building Automation
Energy Management
Access Control
Safety and Health
Traffic Management

The long-term economics point to convergence which
requires cooperation of multiple stakeholders
INTEGRATION FOR PEAK PERFORMANCE
For any LPV environment, the key to efficient connectivity
depends on an informed strategy and an integrated deployment
approach. The temptation is to regard large venue connectivity
as a series of related but distinct challenges, such as Power

Case study
ALLEGIANT STADIUM

over Ethernet (PoE), wireless DAS coverage, fiber and copper

For the Las Vegas Raiders, the 65,000 seat venue boasts 2,400

connectivity and integration into the data center. However,

multi-media screens and 1,700 WiFi access points. Supported

dealing with these challenges individually invites complexity,

by the CommScope-enabled infrastructure, fans and staff will

where vital efficiency gains can be diminished—or even

enjoy connectivity at all ten levels of Allegiant Stadium, including

reversed—by dealing with multiple solution providers, a lack of

some 2,400 video screens, dynamic displays and smart signs.

asset optimization and even redundant layers of infrastructure.

The network will enable fans to use their Raiders and Allegiant

To be effective, integrated connectivity should be:

Stadium mobile app throughout the facility to find parking
spaces, locate concession stands, order food directly to their seats

Comprehensive - The strategy must emphasize both wired

and share their experience on social sites via livestreamed videos.

and wireless connectivity needs. Starting with a common robust
fiber and copper infrastructure for all systems including Wi-Fi,

The result of the CommScope/Raiders partnership is a vast yet

IoT wireless connectivity, as well as cellular connectivity systems,

highly integrated cabling infrastructure featuring 227 miles

DAS, CBRS and small cells. Taking this approach with a single

of fiber and 284 miles of Category 6A copper cabling. The

vendor can result in substantial savings through increased

CommScope SYSTIMAX 100G fiber backbone and 10G CAT

design velocity, reduced material, labor and maintenance costs.

6A copper delivers connectivity for critical stadium systems
and applications such as high-resolution security cameras, fire

Simple - Complexity is a hidden-but-enduring cost for a

and safety, HVAC and lighting controls, wayfinding, ticketing,

piecemeal connectivity execution. Done well, a deployment

concessions, merchandise, and parking.

will take advantage of time and cost-saving opportunities
like modular design, pre-terminated cables and the capacity

Supporting the various wired and wireless applications with a

to share multiple services across a converged physical

single unified and integrated infrastructure involved multiple

infrastructure realizing fiber and copper savings up to 20%.

product portfolios, including network fiber, copper, coaxial
cabling, ribbon fiber for DAS and more. CommScope is one

Flexible - While each LPV deployment is unique, all LPVs need

of the only companies with the breadth and depth in its

the flexibility to move services and add new services quickly

portfolio to provide the necessary infrastructure.

and simply as the needs of the venue change. A common
robust infrastructure will help your network support the latest
technologies and applications from Wi-Fi, LTE, 5G and IoT to
keep your venue on the leading edge of guest experience and
operational efficiency.
Automated Management - Automated Infrastructure

“CommScope fiber optic cabling delivers the
high bandwidth connectivity needed for a truly
compelling and interactive Las Vegas Raiders
fan experience.”

Management (AIM) solutions should provide clear visibility into
the network for LPV IT managers showing the connectivity of

Matthew Pasco

every device, down to the port level. CommScope’s imVision

Technology VP, Las Vegas Raiders

AIM solution can reveal potential trouble spots, security
breaches and underutilized assets that could undermine
your LPV business goals.

7

Transforming Networks in Large Public Venues

We keep
an eye on
the future,
making it our
job to know
what’s next.

BEYOND THE BOWL
LPVs are increasingly becoming full lifestyle centers including retail stores, hotels,
restaurants and multi-dwelling unit (MDU) residential properties in addition to the
anchor stadium. All the capabilities that CommScope brings to the stadium are equally
critical to ensuring the value of the surrounding property. Leading global hospitality
brands and MDUs rely on CommScope to achieve ‘5-star’ connectivity ratings.

ENVISION THE FUTURE

MAKING THE RIGHT CALL

Before embarking on a full network

Holistic approaches to solving network

design and deployment initiative,

and connectivity needs across LPVs have

consider developing a vision for the

arrived, with converged infrastructures

guest experience and how technology

becoming mainstream drivers of

will be used to shape those experiences.

enabling connectivity for new technology

A journey map of the technology

demands in LPVs. To be successful,

touchpoints can help define what the

venue owners must secure the interest

connectivity requirements need to be to

and cooperation of multiple providers of

support your guests from driveway to

services in their venues.

seat and seat to driveway.
Consider a provider that can take
Once the high-level requirements are

an end-to-end view to your network

defined then it’s time to start asking

needs and has innovative approaches

important questions. The following are

and a comprehensive portfolio that

questions you should consider before

includes DAS, Wi-Fi, infrastructure and

beginning your network plan and design:

professional services. Doing so will help
you drive cost savings, reduce project

•

•

Are the various design teams involved

risk, improve operational efficiencies,

in the project aware of each other’s

and unlock new revenue opportunities

network plans?

with an enhanced guest experience.

Do these teams cooperate to
avoid inefficiencies like running
multiple infrastructures for separate
networks?

•

Could a single point of contact
solution integrator reduce complexity
with overall project management and
a cohesive plan?

•

Are emerging technologies and
services such as 5G, Wi-Fi 6 and 6E,
CBRS and powered fiber accounted
for?

•

If not converging your network
infrastructures, what are your
CapEx and OpEx costs for building,
maintaining, and operating separate
infrastructures compared to a single
converged one?

8

The industry’s most comprehensive end to end portfolio that minimizes
supply-chain complexity and decreases global fulfillment costs.

A WINNING TEAM

WHY TEAM WITH COMMSCOPE?

CommScope gives you one source for a broad range of LPV

CommScope provides a single source with capacity to provide the

infrastructure needs. Our technology portfolio includes RF

following equipment and solution design.

and fiber connectivity, cellular and Wi-Fi, converged network
management, small cell and backhaul, along with the services

•

All-digital DAS and Wi-Fi, including carrier-approved CPRI interface

and expertise to bring it all together. We also keep an eye on

•

CBRS for private LTE networks

•

Small cells for additional capacity and cell virtualization

•

Public Safety DAS Ensures Emergency Radio Coverage (ERRCS)

the future with a long-range vision for 5G, Wi-Fi 6, IoT, making
it our job to know what’s next. With a proven track record
of delivering high-performance LPV solutions, CommScope

For First Responders

provides the deep experience that ensures the infrastructure
you deploy today will be ready for the communication
challenges of tomorrow. Our project management team
works collaboratively with your project team and contractors

•

Full design services across our entire product portfolio

•

Full program management and installation of wired and wireless
solutions

to simplify the process. Our partner ecosystem and alliances
include application developers, distributors, installers,

•

Managed Network Solutions expertise to provide real-time health

integrators and consultants all of whom are dedicated to

and monitoring of the network and instantly provide alerts to the

keeping our customers ready for whatever is next.

identified dispatch team

Explore large public venue solutions at www.commscope.com.

commscope.com
Visit our website or contact your local CommScope representative for more information.
© 2021 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved.
Unless otherwise noted, all trademarks identified by ® or ™ are registered trademarks, respectively, of CommScope, Inc. This document is for planning purposes only and is not intended to
modify or supplement any specifications or warranties relating to CommScope products or services. CommScope is committed to the highest standards of business integrity and environmental
sustainability with a number of CommScope’s facilities across the globe certified in accordance with international standards, including ISO 9001, TL 9000, and ISO 14001.
Further information regarding CommScope’s commitment can be found at www.commscope.com/About-Us/Corporate-Responsibility-and-Sustainability.
BR-115300-EN (01/21)

