DATA SHEET

BEAMFLEX®
Smart antenna system

The industry’s only smart antenna
system that delivers stable connectivity
and higher performance
FEATURES

· Multiple directional high-gain elements
· Real-time optimization system
· Works with Wi-Fi 6
of antenna patterns that
· Thousands
are optimized via patented software to
ensure the best path to the client

with 802.11a/b/g/n networks
· Compatible
and clients
learning based on inputs
· Continuous
from network layers 0 through 7
antenna reconfiguration and
· On-the-fly
transmission policy management per

BeamFlex® is a combination of multiple high-gain polarized antenna elements and
patented software algorithms that are combined in real time to offer an exponential
increase in performance. With up to 21 high-gain, directional antenna elements, a
BeamFlex smart antenna offers more than 4,200 unique antenna patterns to optimize
the reception of a given client.
The RUCKUS® adaptive antenna technology also includes adaptive polarization
diversity—further increasing signal gain. Translating to better reception and
transmission, polarization diversity is particularly advantageous for handheld devices
that are hard to hear and constantly change direction.
Completely standards based, and Wi-Fi 6, the BeamFlex smart antenna system works
with any off-the-shelf 802.11a/b/g/n chipset and is integrated into every RUCKUS smart
Wi-Fi access point.

packet, per flow, per receiving device

to 6 dBi signal gain and 15 dB
· Up
interference mitigation

How it works

BENEFITS

transmit energy toward the best path to the receiving device. And, unlike fixed-position

fewer APs to deliver a higher
· Requires
capacity coverage over a greater
area—delivering more reliable client
connectivity

a self-healing, self-optimizing
· Has
antenna system proven in more than 3.5
million installations

·
Wi-Fi range and coverage by
· Extends
focusing Wi-Fi signals toward client
· Maximizes AP and client performance
· Eliminates dead spots
better reception and
· Provides
transmission for handheld clients that

Mitigates interference in a high-density
client and AP environment

are both hard to hear and constantly
change direction
© 2023 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved.

Unlike omnidirectional antennas that radiate signals in all directions, BeamFlex directs
directional antennas, BeamFlex dynamically configures and re-configures its antenna
pattern to achieve focused coverage with directional performance within a given
environment—thus increasing signal gain.
The BeamFlex smart antenna is controlled by an optimization engine that automatically
reconfigures the antenna patterns on a packet-by-packet basis—selecting the best
performing and highest quality signal path and optimum data rate for each receiving
device.
The expert software system within BeamFlex extracts important information from
all 802.11 packets received, such as the sender’s performance, the optimum data
rate, RSSI, error rates and approximate location. It then ranks the optimum antenna
patterns for each communicating device—keeping track of the best performing signal
path at any time for any given client. The resulting antenna pattern shows RF energy
directed toward the client, thus increasing performance while mitigating interference by
removing energy where it does not need to go for each packet transmitted.

What’s the big deal?

Better RF neighbor

Consistent performance

Because BeamFlex only focuses RF energy where it’s needed, it

By continuously steering transmissions to high-quality signal

interferes less with other Wi-Fi access points and clients.

paths, BeamFlex maximizes and sustains Wi-Fi transmission

Automatic adaptation

speeds while minimizing transmission errors. BeamFlex
stabilizes wireless network performance to enable consistent
throughput at range.

Dynamically configuring the Wi-Fi “beam” hundreds of times
each second, BeamFlex can adapt in real time to environmental
changes—steering signals around obstacles, interference

Extended range

and other hazards that would otherwise negatively affect

And, because BeamFlex enables high-gain, directional Wi-Fi

performance.

signals to clients, it delivers up to a four-fold increase in range
over any other Wi-Fi access point.
Stable connections

BeamFlex effectively allows each RUCKUS AP to deliver high-gain
directional Wi-Fi signals in 360 degrees while simultaneously
minimizing noise to nearby networks, devices and other APs.

Through antenna diversity and dynamic adaptation, BeamFlex
ensures that the best performing and most reliable signal path
is used at any given time—thereby minimizing erratic Wi-Fi
behavior such as dropped connections.
Interference mitigation
BeamFlex is able to select antenna patterns that focus RF energy
away from the direction of interference—thereby attenuating
noise to the receiving station. This enables remarkable
improvements in signal gain while, at the same time, reducing
interference or contention among other APs. Using these
interference mitigation techniques, a single ZoneFlex AP can
realize up to 6 dBi in signal gain and 15 dB in interference
mitigation. An interference mitigation algorithm enables the
BeamFlex software to detect the direction of interference from,
for example, a neighboring network, a microwave oven, or a
nearby Bluetooth device. In response, BeamFlex is able to select
antenna patterns that direct energy away from the direction of
interference—attenuating noise to the receiving station.
Client

Composite pattern

BeamFlex+

Figure 1. Example of BeamFlex+ pattern
BeamFlex not only focuses RF energy where it’s needed but also
mitigates interference coming from other directions. This ensures
that the highest possible PHY rate is used and that the highest
possible throughput is achieved for all clients.

www.ruckusnetworks.com
Visit our website or contact your local RUCKUS representative for more information.
© 2023 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved.
All trademarks identified by ™ or ® are trademarks or registered trademarks in the US and may be registered in other
countries. All product names, trademarks and registered trademarks are property of their respective owners. This document
is for planning purposes only and is not intended to modify or supplement any specifications or warranties relating to
CommScope products or services.
PA-115628.1-EN (02/23)

