RUCKUS Analytics

Solving the service assurance challenge for the hospitality industry

Simplifying service assurance
Hotel guests care more than ever before about the availability of Wi-Fi. Wireless access also depends upon the wired
network. It’s one of the most important services a hotel offers – and keeping the network performing to guest
expectations is one of the most difficult and time-consuming tasks for the IT team.
As the number of support tickets mounts, it becomes harder to meet SLAs, and many hospitality groups are spending
thousands of man hours trying to resolve problems with network connectivity.
Unhappy guests. Unproductive employees. Stretched budgets.
There has to be a better way.

RUCKUS IS A MARKET
CommScope is pushing the boundaries of technology to create the world’s
most advanced wired and wireless networks. Our global team of employees,
innovators and technologists empower customers to anticipate what’s next and
invent what’s possible. Discover more at www.commscope.com.

70%

market share

LEADER IN THE HOTEL
INDUSTRY, WITH 70%
MARKET SHARE IN THE
4* & 5* HOTEL BRANDS
WORLDWIDE.

RUCKUS Analytics

1

Contents

The context

The solution

The need for 5* connectivity

Introducing RUCKUS Analytics

The challenge facing help desks

Automated decision making
Key features
Learn more

RUCKUS Analytics

2

The need for 5* connectivity
Three broad trends need to be addressed to provide some context: network complexity, cloud adoption and automation.

Automation

Cloud services

Network complexity

Networks are not just becoming larger and more

As in other industries, hospitality groups increasingly

Exponential growth of data use places ever-increasing

powerful; they are becoming smarter. Innovations such

look to the cloud when it comes to deploying new

demands on networks. As demand increases, so does

as machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI)

software technologies. Cloud services provide many

the complexity of the networks. Hospitality groups

are making it easier for IT teams to cope with the burden

benefits that on-premises software cannot provide.

need to maintain large, often fragmented networks

and deliver a 5* Wi-Fi experience to every guest.

For example, cloud services offer effortless capacity

across multiple properties. There is a lot that can go

expansion – ideal for supporting multi-site networks.

wrong – and a lot at risk if it does.

RUCKUS Analytics

3

From front desk
to help desk.
And beyond
If a guest has a problem, they go to the front desk. They refer the problem to the IT
help desk. Without the proper tools for network intelligence and service assurance,
each issue requires manual investigation by one or more team members.
From knowing there is a problem to fixing it can take significant time, resource
effort and disruption, impacting guest satisfaction and often operations. It’s reactive,
and inefficient. And all the while, the number of support tickets continues to grow.
Imagine how much time and money could be saved if there was a system that
provided actionable intelligence, one that told you exactly what was wrong and
how to fix it? Better still, how much more efficient could the team be if they could
address network issues before they affect guests and employees?

RUCKUS Analytics

4

Introducing RUCKUS Analytics:
automation with machine
learning and artificial intelligence
Full visibility into all your hotels.

RUCKUS Analytics is a cloud service for network intelligence and service assurance. Powered by machine
learning and artificial intelligence, it gives IT comprehensive visibility into network operations. It accelerates
troubleshooting and helps IT teams meet their network SLAs.

Future
Past
Basic Reporting
DATA AGGREGATION

Present

Auto-remediate
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE

Auto-identify & Recommend
MACHINE LEARNING

RUCKUS Analytics

5

Key features
Incident analytics

Network health monitoring

RUCKUS Analytics automatically detects network incidents flowing from network

RUCKUS analytics automatically monitors network health, continuously measuring a

anomalies that can affect service for guests, and classifies the incidents by severity.

variety of metrics across three categories: connection, performance and infrastructure.

It performs a root cause analysis and makes specific recommendations for steps that

IT teams can establish SLA thresholds for metrics across these categories, and the

the IT help desk can take to remediate the issue.

system measures performance to those SLAs.

Because one root cause has the potential to affect multiple guests, by taking steps to

IT gains insight into network operations across multiple locations, with the ability to

remediate an issue some future service issues can be avoided entirely. The system

readily demonstrate to others the status of network health.

also identifies some incidents before they affect service, allowing the IT help desk to
act proactively to avoid service disruption.

RUCKUS Analytics

6

Key features
Client troubleshooting
Client troubleshooting lets IT search for individual clients on the network and drill down
into their connectivity history. IT gains visibility into connectivity events such as when a
client connects or disconnects, fails to connect, roams between access points and more.
This helps IT to address service issues affecting specific clients quickly and effectively.

Pre-packaged reports and
summary dashboard
RUCKUS Analytics includes an intuitive summary dashboard that provides a high-level
view of network operations across all your locations, with the ability to easily drill down
to the most granular levels.
The service comes with a wide variety of pre-packaged reports so that you can get
started fast. You can download reports as raw data, a PDF file or a CSV file. Forward the
results to stakeholders inside or outside the organization.

RUCKUS Analytics

7

Key features
Data explorer
The Data Explorer tool provides flexible access to the entire data warehouse. It also lets
you create custom dashboards tailored to your needs with drag-and-drop ease.

RUCKUS Analytics

8

Take the pressure off
with RUCKUS Analytics
RUCKUS Analytics brings relief to hard-pressed IT teams. It automates routine service
assurance tasks with artificial intelligence and machine-learning techniques to make IT
more efficient.
It gives you complete visibility over the entire network, identifying the root cause of any
network issue and helping you quickly resolve it. It also helps prevent problems from
affecting guests and internal users by letting you remediate network issues before they
become critical.
IT can deliver a better user experience and is no longer forced to over-allocate resources to
help desk activities associated with service assurance. You’re free to focus on other
projects rather than connectivity issues.

RUCKUS Analytics

9

Learn more
Find out more about how RUCKUS Analytics can make
life easier for your IT team and better for your guests.

Download the IDC technology brief >
View the product walkthrough video >
View the on-demand webinar >
Learn more >

“

Enterprise network operators today have an unprecedented amount
of network health and performance data. But harnessing that data
for maximum benefit is an immense challenge and requires a modern
cloud-supported, machine learning–powered analytics platform.
IDC Technology Spotlight

sponsored by Commscope, Network Visibility

and Analytics: Gain Insights and Actionable Data from Your Network, December 2019
©2020 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved. AD-112253-EN

RUCKUS Analytics

10

CommScope pushes the boundaries of
communications technology with game-changing
ideas and ground-breaking discoveries that spark
profound human achievement. We collaborate
with our customers and partners to design, create
and build the world’s most advanced networks.
It is our passion and commitment to identify the
next opportunity and realize a better tomorrow.
Discover more at commscope.com

www.commscope.com
Visit our website or contact your local CommScope representative for more information.
© 2020 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved.
All trademarks identified by ® or ™ are registered trademarks or trademarks, respectively, of CommScope, Inc.
This document is for planning purposes only and is not intended to modify or supplement any specifications or warranties relating to CommScope products or services.
EB-112900-EN (7/18)

