RUCKUS Analytics
®

A great fit for higher education

First things first. What is RUCKUS® Analytics?

RUCKUS® Analytics is a cloud service for network analytics and assurance.
Powered by machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI), it helps you get
the most from your RUCKUS network.

2

RUCKUS® Analytics: A great fit for higher education

Why is RUCKUS Analytics such a great fit for higher education?

Networks in higher education have grown increasingly complex. They must support more users, devices,
and data traffic than ever before. That trend shows no sign of reversing—it’s with us to stay.
High expectations among students, faculty and staff for network service levels also show no sign of
abating. Users have little patience when their devices can’t connect, take too long to connect, or get
disconnected from the network—or when they can’t get the kind of throughput they need to run dataintensive applications. Institutions must compete for top talent, and a poor connectivity experience is
a major inhibitor in their ability to do so. Mobility is engrained into the college experience, and a poor
connectivity experience can adversely affect a school’s reputation on social media and review sites.

3

RUCKUS® Analytics: A great fit for higher education

Why is RUCKUS Analytics such a great fit for higher education?

IT teams in higher ed often lack the level of staffing seen in corporate environments, so
efficiency is critical. Network service issues are notorious for consuming inordinate amounts of
time to resolve. Network admins must use multiple data sources, manual processes and lots of
guesswork to determine the root causes and troubleshoot connectivity issues. Lack of visibility
into network operations is a major inhibitor to IT effectiveness.

4

RUCKUS® Analytics: A great fit for higher education

Why is RUCKUS Analytics such a great fit for higher education?

RUCKUS Analytics is the perfect tool to help you get the most from your RUCKUS network. It
leverages machine learning and artificial intelligence to automate many of the tasks associated
with network assurance. It provides comprehensive visibility into network operations, accelerates
troubleshooting and helps IT improve the connectivity experience for students, faculty and staff.

5

RUCKUS® Analytics: A great fit for higher education

Why is RUCKUS Analytics such a great fit for higher education?

RUCKUS Analytics helps enable a smart campus by making sure network service issues
don’t stand in the way of a great college experience. It enables proactive IT and gives you
the insight to prevent incidents from becoming service-affecting. By helping you deliver the
service levels that students expect, network performance becomes a differentiator that drives
student preference for attending your institution.

6

RUCKUS® Analytics: A great fit for higher education

Higher education networking challenges—and how
RUCKUS Analytics helps

7

Challenge

How RUCKUS Analytics helps

Poor wireless coverage and blind spots
on campus

Incident analytics, powered by ML and AI, automatically
identifies areas with low received signal strength (RSS)

Difficulty troubleshooting individual
students’ Wi-Fi issues

Client troubleshooting module delivers insight into the
connectivity experience of a specific user/device

Inadequate throughput to stream videos,
access websites/web applications, and
use virtual reality tools

Health monitoring automatically measures network
performance vs. admin-defined SLA thresholds

Disruption of classes/exams by network
service issues

Incident analytics enables proactive IT and helps IT
dramatically improve service levels for students, faculty
and staff

RUCKUS® Analytics: A great fit for higher education

Where can I learn more?

Your institution may be just starting to consider deploying advanced network analytics—or
maybe you’re farther along in the consideration process. Regardless, we invite you to learn
more at www.commscope.com/analytics. There you will find a wide range of materials
about RUCKUS Analytics, including videos, infographics, a data sheet and more. When
you’re ready, you can even request a free trial or a live online demo.

Contact CommScope

8

RUCKUS® Analytics: A great fit for higher education

CommScope pushes the boundaries of communications
technology with game-changing ideas and ground-breaking
discoveries that spark profound human achievement.
We collaborate with our customers and partners to design,
create and build the world’s most advanced networks. It is our
passion and commitment to identify the next opportunity and
realize a better tomorrow. Discover more at commscope.com

commscope.com
Visit our website or contact your local CommScope representative for more information.
© 2021 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved.
Unless otherwise noted, all trademarks identified by ® or ™ are registered trademarks or trademarks, respectively, of CommScope, Inc. This document is for planning purposes only and is not intended to modify or supplement any specifications or
warranties relating to CommScope products or services. CommScope is committed to the highest standards of business integrity and environmental sustainability, with a number of CommScope’s facilities across the globe certified in accordance with
international standards, including ISO 9001, TL 9000, and ISO 14001. Further information regarding CommScope’s commitment can be found at www.commscope.com/corporate-responsibility-and-sustainability.
EB-114975.1-EN (05/21)

