FIVE THINGS to Look for in
a Network Assurance Tool
Assuring required service levels for complex networks means having the right analytics
capabilities at your disposal. Here are five things to look for when considering a network
analytics and assurance product as part of a broader wired and wireless network offering:

1.

Unified, all-in-one
product.
Too many vendors ask you to buy multiple products
to get the network intelligence you need. An all-inone analytics product is ideal because it provides
comprehensive, unified network intelligence.

3.

All network service issues are not created equal.
Seek out network analytics tools that rank
service incidents by severity, including which
service issues are the highest priority. That way
you can address what matters most, first.

Granular
troubleshooting.
Summary views are great, but in-depth client
troubleshooting requires maximum granularity
so that you can pinpoint the problem. Seek out
technologies that give you a detailed view of the
connectivity experience from the perspective of
individual clients.

5.

2.

Simple deployment.
The antidote to network complexity is not more
complexity. Look for a product that doesn’t sacrifice
simplicity for power—that’s a false trade-off. Look
for cloud services that don’t require a separate onsite data collector or appliance.

Incident
classification by
severity.

4.

Flexible access to
your network data
warehouse.
Some analytics products don’t let you drill down
into your network data. Rigidity is not your ally.
Make sure you choose a product that delivers
drag-and-drop simplicity with flexible options for
visualizing your data.

The right tool can dramatically improve your efficiency in assuring required network service levels.
Advanced network analytics frees up resources so your team can focus on higher value-added
activities. You accelerate troubleshooting for a lower mean time to resolution, and users get the
service levels they expect.
Learn more at www.commscope.com/analytics.

© 2021 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved. | IG-114469.1-EN (03/21)

