DATA SHEET

RUCKUS® WATCHDOG
End user support for ICX switches

Enabling non-stop networking with flexible support options
RUCKUS understands that every network is unique and requires a different level of
technical support to meet the customer’s business requirements. RUCKUS provides
a single support contact for ICX Switching products purchased through all existing
channels. Organizations facing the challenges of maintaining large or complex networking
BENEFITS
24x7 access to RUCKUS
· Provides
Technicial Support expertise, reducing
time to resolution

unmatched expertise to
· Provides
optimize network performance
a variety of Service Level
· Offers
Agreements (SLAs) tailored to meet
organizations’ unique support needs

environments gain immediate access to RUCKUS expertise and resources to accelerate
problem resolution, increase uptime, and improve overall efficiency.

Watchdog end user support service-level options
WatchDog End User Support provides software and hardware support to ICX switching
customers. Support includes 24×7 access to the Technical Assistance Center (TAC)
(available through phone, chat and the web), software updates, online self- service tools,
and offers several hardware replacement options.

Service levels defined
To help customers meet critical business objectives, WatchDog End User Support offers
two SLA options, providing increased flexibility and choice.
4-Hour Parts (4P)
Provides 4-hour response for parts replacement from the time RUCKUS has determined a
replacement is required and confirmed dispatch with the customer. Physical installation of
the replacement part and defective product return are to be performed by the customer.
4P is available in most major metropolitan areas worldwide and is available 24×7, including
holidays. Click here to find out whether your location is within the required distance for a
4-hour or next-business-day response.
Next-Business-Day Parts (NDP)
Provides next-business-day response for parts replacement from the time RUCKUS has
determined a replacement is required and confirmed dispatch with the customer. Physical
installation of the replacement part and defective product return are to be performed
by the customer. NDP is available in most major metropolitan areas worldwide and is
available on business days 9×5 local time to customer site. Offer also includes 24×7 access
to the TAC, software updates, and online self-service tools. For ICX switches, this support
is needed to provide next-business-day replacement of removable optics and LEDs, which
are not covered under the RUCKUS Assurance Limited Lifetime Warranty.

© 2023 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved.

Remote Technical Support (RMT)
Provides 24×7 access to the TAC, software updates, and online self-service tools. RMT support is available worldwide and 24×7,
including holidays. This is a good option for customers who are satisfied with the parts replacement coverage available under the
RUCKUS Assurance Limited Lifetime Warranty.

Table 1. Summary of RUCKUS service Level Agreements (SLAs).

Purpose

Technical Assistance
Center (TAC)

RUCKUS Support Portal: Online
Welf Service, KB and Case
Management

Software Updates and
Downloads (as available)

24x7 Access

Unlimited

Unlimited

Support level agreements (SLAs)
4-hour2 parts (-4P)
Next-business-day1,2,3 parts
(-NBD)
Remote support4 (-RMT)
Software support (-SW)
1

Subject to customer providing RUCKUS with a description of the repair problem, part number, serial number, and return address. To determine if your specific location is within the
required distance for a 4-hour or next-business day response please visit https://support.ruckuswireless.com/documents/2026-enterprise-network-direct-support-coverage.

2

Additional limitations and/or restrictions may apply. Hardware delivery times are based on a single point of failure incident. Delivery times for failures including but not limited to
non-standard/variable configuration unit replacements, oversized/heavy weight items, or non-single point of failures may fall outside the posted SLA. Non-mechanical supplies and
accessories (e.g. sheet metal, rack mounts, hinges, etc.) are excluded from the delivery SLA. Software version levels on replacement hardware may require upgrade/downgrade
based on your current operating environment.

3

Next-business-day delivery is available when RUCKUS determines a replacement is required by 2:00 p.m. local time and customer distance from the nearest parts distribution center
is within commercial carrier’s standard next-business-day delivery area (some restrictions may apply). If customer location is outside the commercial carrier’s next-business-day
delivery area parts will ship the same or next day (2:00 p.m. local time cutoff for same day shipping, some restrictions may apply). Delivery times may vary due to customs and local
regulations which are outside of RUCKUS control. Customers may be responsible for importation costs, brokerage fees, import duties, and taxes. Next-business-day is not available
on selected holidays.

4

Available only for RUCKUS hardware products with Assurance Limited Lifetime Warranty (ALLW). 3rd party optics and transceivers are not covered in ALLW or any RUCKUS support
programs.

Online technical support tools
Customers with a valid RUCKUS Technical Support contract have 24×7 access to several online tools through the RUCKUS Support
Portal:
•

Downloads: Allows customers to obtain OS firmware and code updates as well as drivers, MIBs, utilities, and documentation.

•

Knowledge base: Enables customers to research and solve technical questions through a robust database of articles.

World class support infrastructure
RUCKUS Technical Support is designed to provide optimal support for WatchDog End User Support customers. They can leverage
the RUCKUS worldwide support infrastructure, expertise, best-practice guidance, and commitment to quality to maximize their
network uptime.
Table 2. Severity levels and RUCKUS Technical Support response and escalation times.5
Case Severity

Technical Engagement Time

Communication Frequency

Management Escalation

Within 30 minutes

Updates hourly

2 hours

Severity 2 High

Within 2 hours

Updates every 12 hours

One business day

Severity 3 Medium

Within one day

Updates daily

N/A

Severity 4 Low

Within one day

Updates every 3 days

N/A

Severity 1 Critical

5

2

The times listed are targets only and not a guarantee that RUCKUS will respond or escalate with the target time.

RUCKUS WATCHDOG | End user support for ICX switches

© 2023 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved.

World wide coverage
RUCKUS WatchDog End User Support customers have access to a strong partner ecosystem capable of providing additional services,
including onsite support if desired. In addition, toll-free numbers and local language support enable easy communication with
RUCKUS Technical Support.

Warranty
RUCKUS ICX switches are covered by the RUCKUS Assurance® Limited Lifetime Warranty.
For details, visit https://support.ruckuswireless.com/warranty

RUCKUS expertise
RUCKUS Technical Support engineers have deep networking expertise and are trained to resolve network problems as quickly as
possible to minimize downtime. Furthermore, RUCKUS Technical Support engineers receive ongoing training and certification to
provide customers with the most skilled team to address their issues.

Commitment to quality
Leveraging best practices and fostering a culture of continuous improvement, RUCKUS offers high-quality technical support for its
networking solutions by investing in its processes, people, and partnerships. RUCKUS gathers customer feedback on service delivery,
procedures, systems, products, and offerings, and makes necessary adjustments to optimize its processes. In addition, RUCKUS
invests in its people through continuous education, providing customers a professional team with the networking expertise to quickly
resolve issues.

Maximizing investments
To help optimize technology investments, RUCKUS and its partners offer complete solutions that include professional services,
technical support, and education. For more information, contact a RUCKUS authorized partner or visit www.ruckusnetworks.com.
Note: Until further notice, the legacy Brocade support SKUs that were used for ordering the support levels described in this
document will remain in place. Onsite support SLAs are no longer provided, except to customers with existing contracts.

About RUCKUS Networks
RUCKUS Networks builds and delivers purpose-driven networks that perform in the demanding
environments of the industries we serve. Together with our network of trusted go-to-market partners,
we empower our customers to deliver exceptional experiences to the guests, students, residents,
citizens and employees who count on them.

www.ruckusnetworks.com
Visit our website or contact your local RUCKUS representative for more information.
© 2023 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved.
All trademarks identified by ™ or ® are trademarks or registered trademarks in the US and may be registered in other
countries. All product names, trademarks and registered trademarks are property of their respective owners. This document
is for planning purposes only and is not intended to modify or supplement any specifications or warranties relating to
CommScope products or services.
PA-117384-EN (01/23)

