DATA SHEET

RUCKUS AI™
AI-Driven Service Assurance and Business Intelligence for RUCKUS
enterprise networks

IT teams often lack the tools to ensure required network service levels in an
environment of ever-increasing user connectivity demands and network complexity.
Helpdesk tickets from user connectivity issues pile up while IT struggles to glean insight
from network data. When service issues affect user experience, IT often lacks a way to
identify root causes and define a course of action to fix the problem.

BENEFITS
•

•

•

•

•

•

AI powered network incident
identification, prioritization, and
resolution AI Operations.
AI powered RRM to optimize network
by reducing interference links

RUCKUS AI™ from CommScope is a cloud service for network intelligence and service
assurance. Powered by machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI), it helps
you get the most from your RUCKUS® network. The service gives IT comprehensive
visibility into network operations. It accelerates troubleshooting and helps IT teams
meet their network service level agreements (SLAs).
The service identifies network assurance incidents, classifies them by severity, traces

AI driven AppInsights for visibility into
wired, wireless and application server
performance over time.

root causes and makes specific AI recommendations for remediation. It automatically

Accelerates network and client
troubleshooting

Advanced client troubleshooting and AI incident intelligence give IT teams the power

Helps IT teams improve the user
experience

RUCKUS network to allow it to self-validate—without the need for overlay sensors. You

Service Assurance works with your
RUCKUS network to automatically
validate service levels

monitors network health relative to configurable thresholds.

to address service issues for individual users and devices. RUCKUS AI works with your
can identify and address many service issues before they even affect users.
The service also delivers robust reporting and informative dashboards. Create custom
dashboards and data visualizations with the Data Studio tool—and flexibly explore
your network data warehouse with drag-and-drop ease.

This network navigation widget
present in the dashboard and
other pages enables you to
browse across your entire network
organization. It enables you to
drilldown and filter parts of the
network hierarchy. Levels to
browse include overall network,
domain, zone, AP group, AP.You can
also search for a specific network
element in the search box above
the navigation.

© 2023 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved.

RUCKUS AI aggregates raw data and automatically transforms
it into deep insight into network operations. This ML- and AIpowered service frees you from a wide variety of manual tasks
associated with network assurance. Comprehensive network
intelligence helps you deliver on network SLAs in support of
users, devices and applications.
RUCKUS AI automatically measures the impact of the RUCKUS
SmartZone™ software configuration changes on network
performance. You can observe the effects of each change on
a portion of the network before rolling it out more broadly.
This helps to avoid fully rolling out changes that might have an
adverse effect on network performance.

Streaming telemetry with a modern data stack
for advanced service assurance
RUCKUS AI is designed for the unique data profile generated
by network devices. On-premises controllers securely connect
to the cloud and stream lightweight health KPIs and telemetry.
The high-performance data stack ingests and processes the
data to serve as the basis for queries, reports and
baseline metrics.

Comprehensive visibility into network
operations
“Health” page provides users visibility to monitor network
health,, with an overview tab that provides a high-level

It scales to support the largest deployments—expanding

summary view. Select other health monitoring tabs to view

capacity transparently to meet your requirements. RUCKUS AI

metrics in specific health categories: connection, performance,

supports two control and management architectures: RUCKUS

and infrastructure. Network health monitoring gives you instant

SmartZone software* for on-premises and private cloud/data

visibility into metrics like AP service uptime, time to connect,

center deployments, and RUCKUS Cloud™ for cloud-managed

connection success rate, client throughput and more. You

deployments.

define the service levels you want to measure against. For
example, you might want to set the “time to connect” goal at

RUCKUS AI has an industry-unique combination of attributes:

five seconds—RUCKUS AI will tell you what percentage of the
time the network meets that goal. The service lets you readily

•

Automated data baselining and insights driven by ML and AI

•

Health and SLA monitoring

•

Powerful, holistic troubleshooting

•

Automatic classification of incident severity

•

Service validation without the need for an on-site data
collector or overlay sensors

•

Granular access to raw data with deep exploration and
custom dashboards

•

12 months of storage with flexible data reporting

demonstrate to others in your organization performance to
SLAs. You can also setup custom SLA and measure compliance
of network values with custom thresholds.

Network Incident creation powered by machine
learning and artificial intelligence.
RUCKUS AI enables machine-assisted proactive networking
for your RUCKUS deployment. It automatically establishes a
normal range of behavior for each network element, without
requiring any input from IT. Then it uses machine learning to
automatically identify service incidents related to connectivity,
performance and infrastructure that affect user experience.

* RUCKUS SmartZone 5.1.2 or higher is required.

2

RUCKUS AI™ AI-driven Service Assurance and Business Intelligence for RUCKUS enterprise networks

It uses artificial intelligence to classify service incidents by
severity—so you can address the highest-priority issues first.

AppInsights – Application Quality of Experience
RUCKUS AI also provides the user insights linked to application

The system provides details for each incident, including:
•

Root cause and recommended action

•

Affected areas (client operating system types, access point
models, firmware versions, WLANs and more)

•

Other impact details, including severity, client impact and
duration.

•

List of impacted clients

•

Presentation of the underlying data that drives the incident.

outcomes by scoring an application quality of experience.
This is especially useful to monitor collaboration application
traffic over the network and drive to administrators - incident
notifications and corrective action steps within their network
infrastructure in order to improve the end user experience
with various applications.

Powerful client troubleshooting
With simple and flexible search and a holistic client
troubleshooting page, RUCKUS AI gives you a complete picture

RUCKUS AI dramatically reduces mean time to resolution

of client experience for easy connectivity and user experience

for service incidents. It can eliminate some helpdesk tickets

diagnostics, including:

by letting you address issues before they affect users. By

•

Successful, slow, and failed connections

incidents that might arise from that cause. Service providers

•

Disconnect events.

can realize instant business value when level 1/2 helpdesk

•

Roaming events and failed roams

•

Connection quality (RSSI, MCS, client throughput)

•

Network incidents affecting users, with links to see incident

addressing the root cause for one incident, you can avoid other

personnel can remediate complex network problems using
RUCKUS AI.

AI driven Cloud RRM
With compute intensive AI capabilities such as RRM, RUCKUS

details.
•

packet analysis.

AI can drive optimization to each zone of your network by
recommending ideal channel plan and channel bandwidth
along with changes to AP transmit power to reduce interfering
links and bring about improved speed throughput for your
users. You will visually be presented with a prediction of this
optimization and reduction of interference. RUCKUS AI runs
simulations every 24 hours to get the best possible solution of

Network pcap download for all failure events for detailed

Client troubleshooting is a powerful tool that helps you
understand and address issues affecting specific clients on the
network.

Automatic service validation

driving down to zero interference. You also have an ability to

RUCKUS AI works with your RUCKUS network to automatically

schedule applying the recommended setting and to revert if

validate service levels without the need for overlay sensors.

the need arises.

Access points act as virtual clients to identify possible service
disruptions, often before they affect users. The system can

AI Operations

perform a variety of tests, including:

RUCKUS AI also helps automate solutions and task sequences

•

WLAN, LAN and WAN connectivity

•

EAP, RADIUS, DHCP and DNS

•

Ping, traceroute and speed test (upload/download)

to the customer by simplifying action as a single click and
taking away manual search, operations management and helps
remove chances of manual error. Like AI driven Cloud RRM, the
user can view the prediction, schedule the recommendation
and revert if the need arises.

3

RUCKUS AI™ Network intelligence and service assurance for RUCKUS enterprise networks

Melissa™ Virtual Assistant infused with
chatGPT —your own AI-powered virtual
network assistant.

to initiate helpdesk tickets automatically and let IT get a head

RUCKUS AI includes a powerful AI-powered virtual network

go unreported.

assistant called Melissa™ which has also been infused with
chatGPT capabilities. Combining an intuitive interface with
advanced natural language processing, Melissa determines
the administrator’s intent in posing a wide variety of inquiries
and delivers highly insightful responses. IT teams save valuable
time with ready access to information that helps them manage

start in resolving them. This ensures that, when a service issue
occurs, it is flagged for the helpdesk to address. Without such a
system in place many issues that affect user experience

Business Insights
RUCKUS AI also delivers valuable insights for business
decisions with features such as Brand 360 that enables
hospitality properties to monitor brand compliance scores.

network operations—without the need for any coding.

They can share the scores with ecosystem partners to help

Health

service level agreements, hotel operators can ensure that

RUCKUS AI includes a feature to view 15 metrics over time

for the end customer guests.

identify issues and make improvements quickly. With custom
networks are available, reliable, and performing at their best

categorized amongst Connection, Performance, Infrastructure,
Application such as connection success ratio, time to connect,
client throughput, AP capacity, and many more. You can also
setup custom SLA and measure compliance of network values
with custom thresholds.

Config change

Prepackaged reports and dashboards
A wide variety of standardized reports provides visibility into
network performance, traffic patterns, application usage and
more. Summary views provide high-level information, and you
can drill down to the level of individual network components
and devices. Examples of standardized reports include:

RUCKUS AI includes a feature as a method to quantify impact
of making config changes to network and these can be

•

measured across 15 different SLA points.

AI Driven Probe suppression
RUCKUS AI can intelligently help reduce channel congestion
linked to excessive probes in high density venues with transient

traffic distribution and more
•

Occupancy Analytics
The Occupancy page provides insights into space utilization
within a facility, such as the most heavily used area or the
predominantly least used area within the facility along with
network metrics. It includes Utilization rate, total In-Site visitors,
average dwell time for each site along with the set of clients.

IT service management integration
RUCKUS AI integrates closely with leading IT service
management (ITSM) products from ServiceNow and Salesforce

4

Client—reports by OS and device manufacturer, top clients
by usage, client trends, session details and more

•

Inventory—AP, switch and controller count, models,
firmware, status and more

devices or large number of Wi-Fi clients and ultimately improve
network performance.

Network—traffic and client trends, top devices, top SSIDs,

•

Application—top apps and their usage trends, top app
groups and usage, top ports and more

•

Device-specific reports—complete visibility and usage
reports for clients, APs, and switches

The service lets you download reports as raw data, a PDF file,
or a CSV file. Forward the results to stakeholders inside or
outside the organization.

Data Studio—custom dashboards, data
visualizations and more
The RUCKUS AI Data Studio tool lets you create custom
dashboards with multiple charts to dissect and analyze data

RUCKUS AI™ AI-driven Service Assurance and Business Intelligence for RUCKUS enterprise networks

from your network ecosystem. Drag-and-drop dashboard creation makes it easy to design views tailored to your needs. You can easily
position and reposition dashboard tiles, edit tiles at will and toggle between different views.
Analyze and filter data by dozens of data sets (AP Hardware, AP, Applications, Client, Client Connection, Client Sessions, Controller and
Switch Inventory). Data Studio puts your full network data warehouse at your fingertips so you can answer any number of network
questions.

Cloud deployment for scalability and expandability
As a completely hosted service, without the need for any on-site data collectors, RUCKUS AI relieves you of the burden of managing an
in-house network intelligence platform. Leveraging on the latest software technologies in scalable cloud microservices, databases and
real-time data pipelines, RUCKUS AI constantly learns and improves its AI models to provide maximum insights and optimization for
your network.
Customers can designate a third party—such as a RUCKUS networking solution provider—to administer their account. Managed
service providers (MSPs) can manage multiple end- customer RUCKUS AI accounts from within their own account.

New Dashboard
New Dashboard | RUCKUS AI includes a dashboard with all your network summarized for AI Incidents, AI Operations, AI driven RRM,
AppInsights and Melissa infused with chatGPT capabilities.

5

RUCKUS AI™ AI-driven Service Assurance and Business Intelligence for RUCKUS enterprise networks

AI Driven Cloud RRM
AI-Driven RRM | RUCKUS AI drives network optimizations in reduction in co channel interference links by adjusting channel plan,
bandwidth and AP transmit power through large number of simulations and linking with a single click apply

Network Assurance
Network Assurance | Health | RUCKUS AI automatically monitors network health across a variety of metrics in three areas:
connection, performance, and infrastructure.

6

RUCKUS AI™ AI-driven Service Assurance and Business Intelligence for RUCKUS enterprise networks

AI Incidents
AI Incidents | RUCKUS AI provides a root cause analysis of each service incident with specific recommendations for how
to resolve the issue.

Advanced Client Troubleshooting
Advanced Client Troubleshooting | Lets you investigate and resolve issues that have impacted a specific client on the network.

7

RUCKUS AI™ AI-driven Service Assurance and Business Intelligence for RUCKUS enterprise networks

Data Studio
Data Studio | The Data Studio tool in RUCKUS AI lets you create custom dashboards with drag-and-drop ease.

AI Assurance
AI Assurance | Service Validation | RUCKUS AI works with your RUCKUS network to allow the network to automatically validate
network service levels.

8

RUCKUS AI™ AI-driven Service Assurance and Business Intelligence for RUCKUS enterprise networks

Reporting
Reporting | RUCKUS AI includes a wide variety of pre-packaged reports. This report shows metrics related to the RUCKUS switches in
the network.

Specifications
Security,
privacy and
data protection

•
•
•

•
•
•
•

All traffic to and from the cloud is encrypted.
Only AP, switch, and client management traffic are sent to the cloud.
Client data traffic stays local (broken out to local LAN and sent through existing
firewall)
All data stored in RUCKUS AI is encrypted at rest.
RUCKUS offers EU-located data centers for European customers.
Latest security patches are automatically updated.
Role-based access control is provided for administrative privileges

Admin can grant and
revoke access to
partners and RUCKUS
support

Ability to choose the
hosting region for your
service (USA, EU or
Asia)

Cloud data
center

•

Hosted in USA, Europe and Asia on world-class IAAS provider with:
– ISO 27001 information security certification
– SSAE-16, SOC 1, SOC 2 and SOC 3 certifications
– Stringent physical, data access and data disposal security measures
– Per-tenant migration capabilities
– Green carbon-neutral facilities
– Dedicated inter-DC fiber connectivity

SLA

•

99.9 percent network availability (does not include planned maintenance, including
periodic software upgrades and other pre-announced activities)

9

RUCKUS AI™ AI-driven Service Assurance and Business Intelligence for RUCKUS enterprise networks

View RUCKUS Cloud
privacy policy

Support

•

24x7 chat/web/phone support included for the term of the subscription

Part numbers

•

CLD-ANAP-1001
– RUCKUS AI one-year subscription for RUCKUS Cloud or AP managed by
SmartZone controllers or ICX® switch

•

CLD-ANAP-3001
– RUCKUS AI three-year subscription for RUCKUS Cloud or AP managed by
SmartZone controller or ICX® switch

•

CLD-ANAP-5001
– RUCKUS AI five-year subscription for RUCKUS Cloud or AP managed by SmartZone
controller or ICX® switch

•

CLR-ANAP-1001
– RUCKUS AI one-year renewal for RUCKUS Cloud or AP managed by SmartZone
controller or ICX® switch

•

CLR-ANAP-3001
– RUCKUS AI three-year renewal for RUCKUS Cloud or AP managed by SmartZone
controller or ICX® switch

•

CLR-ANAP-5001
– RUCKUS AI five-year renewal for RUCKUS Cloud or AP managed by SmartZone
controller or ICX® switch

About Ruckus Networks
Ruckus Networks builds and delivers purpose-driven networks that perform in the demanding environments of
the industries we serve. Together with our network of trusted go-to-market partners, we empower our customers
to deliver exceptional experiences to the guests, students, residents, citizens and employees who count on them.

www.ruckusnetworks.com
Visit our website or contact your local RUCKUS representative for more information.
© 2023 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved.
CommScope and the CommScope logo are registered trademarks of CommScope and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries.
For additional trademark information see https://www.commscope.com/trademarks. All product names, trademarks and registered
trademarks are property of their respective owners.
PA-114203.4-EN (10/23)

