AT-A-GLANCE

RUCKUS® SmartZoneOS 5

Single Network Element to Manage Wired and Wireless Networks

For the first time in the industry, CommScope is enabling IT to deploy a single
network element, the network controller, to simultaneously and directly control
and manage both wired and wireless networks. IT no longer needs to deploy a
separate, stand-alone network management system to manage their switches and
access points. Simple.

HIGHLIGHTS
CONSOLIDATED WIRED-WIRELESS
MANAGEMENT
A single wired and wireless network management
user interface for deploying, monitoring, and
troubleshooting access points and switches.
AUTOMATED DEVICE DISCOVERY

Powered by SmartZoneOS 5, the new network controllers bring to converged
management the same attributes that have made SmartZone network controllers
the preferred choice for service providers and enterprises seeking:
•

wired and wireless networks.
•

•

FLEXIBLE DEPLOYMENT OPTIONS

•

EXPEDITE TROUBLESHOOTING
Visual Connection Diagnostics speeds and
simplifies troubleshooting and wireless client
problem resolution while unique “super-KPIs”
enable IT to more quickly detect and react to
potential user experience degradation.
CONTENT FILTERING
Easily create and enforce content polices
to protect wireless users from accessing
inappropriate websites using URL Filtering.
MULTI-TIER MANAGED SERVICES
Multi-tenancy, domain segmentation and
containerization enable secure delivery of
managed networking services with complex,
multi-tiered service levels.

Simplicity: Network management becomes accessible to general IT personnel
without CLI expertise.
Openness: Open APIs allow IT to call controller functions and streaming APIs
push in near real-time the full array of network data, statistics, and alarms.

•

Flexibility: IT deploys the network architecture of its choice, at any scale:
centralized or distributed, physical or virtual, on-premises or data center/private
cloud.

UMATCHED SCALE
A SmartZone network controller can manage
10K APs, 150K clients and up to 20 Gbps of
throughput, while 3+1 active clustering increases
capacity to 30K APs, 450K clients and up to
60 Gbps of aggregate throughput depending
on model.

Ease: Provisioning delays and errors are eliminated through a common
automated discovery process.

L3 and L2 auto-discovery and auto- provisioning
of APs and switches eliminates the guesswork,
reduces manual administration, and cut down
deployment time.

SmartZone network controllers come in multiple
versions to accommodate customer preferences
and organization sizes. It can be deployed as a
physical appliance or a virtual appliance.

Breadth: IT controls and manages through a single controller console both

•

Scale: Controllers that scale to a network of up to 450K clients.

Completely
redesigned
dashboard
experience.

Google
maps
integration
and indoor
floorplans.

Global filter
preserves
admin
context
throughout
menus and
pages.
Fresh
layout, user
interaction,
and styling
throughout.

New menu
structure
with
simplified
navigation.

For more information: www.commscope.com/product-type/enterprise-networking/
control-management/

© 2020 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved.

CO-114559-EN (05/20)

