SOLUTION BRIEF

Keep Hotel Staff Safe with
TraknProtect Safety Buttons

The hospitality industry is using Internet of Things (IoT) solutions like safety buttons to protect employees in
emergencies. Now, two industry leaders, CommScope and TraknProtect, are joining forces to make these IoT
systems much simpler and less expensive. With smarter wireless connectivity, hotels can keep their workers safe
while building a foundation for tomorrow’s IoT applications.

The Challenge

Solution

Organizations worldwide are taking strong stands to protect their

Adding new IoT applications doesn’t have to be a complex, costly

employees from sexual misconduct in the workplace. In industries

exercise. By combining their innovative IoT solutions, CommScope

like hospitality however, the nature of the work poses unique

and TraknProtect are making safety button systems much simpler

challenges. Hotel employees often work alone with customers in

to deploy and operate. At the same time, they’re helping hotels

private settings like guest rooms, where guest misconduct is all

build a flexible wireless foundation for the full range of emerging

too common. Industry studies indicate that most hotel workers

IoT applications.

have experienced at least one incident of sexual harassment by
guests.

•

built specifically for hospitality. Within seconds of staff
triggering the system, hotel management or security personnel

To protect their workers, hotel operators are turning to personal

receive alerts with the employee’s precise location, so they can

safety buttons that staff can activate in an emergency. Deploying

provide immediate assistance.

and operating these systems, however, is neither simple nor
cheap. Effective solutions must be highly accurate, providing

TraknProtect provides the only wireless safety button system

•

CommScope’s RUCKUS Networks solution brings industry-

an employee’s exact location across sprawling properties with

leading wireless, wired and IoT connectivity to the world’s

hundreds of rooms and multiple floors and wings. To do it, they

premier hotel and hospitality brands. With the versatile RUCKUS

typically rely on Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) beacons and wireless

IoT Suite, hotels can connect multiple IoT devices, using multiple

hubs to calculate and transmit an employee’s exact location to

wireless protocols, over a single infrastructure.

hotel management or security personnel.
With the combined solution, hotel operators can take advantage
For hotel operators, this often means running a separate,

of TraknProtect’s real-time safety solution without having to

standalone wireless network—in addition to all the other wireless

deploy a separate, proprietary infrastructure. Instead, TraknProtect

services (door locks, Wi-Fi connected thermostats, guest Internet

safety buttons and BLE beacons communicate with the RUCKUS

access, in-room entertainment) already deployed. As hotels add

IoT Suite, so they can run over the Wi-Fi network hotels

more IoT services, IT departments can quickly find themselves

already have in place. The RUCKUS IoT Suite acts as a universal

swimming in a sea of complex networks and protocols, all of

translator for IoT protocols like ZigBee and BLE, allowing them to

which require their own separate power, management and

communicate over a single, consolidated infrastructure. Hotels

maintenance.

can start with the TraknProtect safety button solution and use
the same platform to launch other new IoT-powered guest
experiences and hotel efficiencies.

How it Works
TraknProtect provides real-time staff protection through its cloud-based application. The application tracks the location of safety buttons
via BLE beacons, so it can triangulate the precise location of workers, even when they’re on the move. In the integrated solution, all
communications between safety buttons, BLE beacons, cloud application and hotel staff run over the hotel’s Wi-Fi infrastructure, eliminating
the need to install proprietary wireless hubs.
When a worker activates a safety button, the TraknProtect system calculates the location and transmits the alarm via RUCKUS IoT- enabled
access points (APs). Within seconds, designated hotel management or security staff receive the alert on their workstations or mobile devices.
The unified infrastructure can support additional TraknProtect solutions (room tray tracking, asset management, vendor management), as
well as other IoT applications for a wide range of guest services and operational efficiencies.

Ruckus and TraknProtect Safety Button Solution

Software sends
Immediate Active
Panic Button Alerts
with location
(via desktop, SMS,
email, or phone call)

Panic Buttons

BLE Enabled
Access Points

Inventory Trackers
Room Tray Trackers
Vendor/Staff Trackers
(BLE Beacons)

TraknProtect Dashboard

Data Cloud
Triangulates
Real-Time
Location Data

Real-time analytics
across multiple properties
Inventory Tracking in app
F&B Room Tray Tracking in app +
location alerts
Vendor/Staff Tracking in app
+ location alerts
This document is proprietary and confidential. No part of
this document may be disclosed in any manner to a third
party without the prior written consent of TraknProtect.

Business Benefits
With the combined solution, hotel operators can:
•

Eliminate the complexity of maintaining multiple infrastructures: Using RUCKUS high-performance access points and RUCKUS
ICX™ switches, hotels can deploy TraknProtect alongside other hotel and guest applications on a single, consolidated network.

•

Get more value for their money: With RUCKUS APs and IoT Suite supporting multiple applications, hotels see a greater return on their
wireless safety button investment and a platform that can continue to deliver new value far into the future.

•

Reduce costs and disruption: Using an integrated solution, hotels drive down the costs of installing, powering, managing and
maintaining multiple wireless and IoT systems. It also becomes much easier to launch new IoT services with minimal disruption to hotel
operations and guests.

Get Started
Keeping employees safe doesn’t have to mean taking on high costs and spiraling technical complexity. With the combined strengths of
CommScope and TraknProtect, hotel operators can implement a state-of-the-art IoT safety button solution quickly and easily. At the same
time, they can build a versatile foundation to make deploying new IoT services simpler and less expensive.
Contact us today to learn more.

Keep Hotel Staff Safe with TraknProtect Safety Buttons

2

RUCKUS solutions are part of CommScope’s comprehensive portfolio for Enterprise environments (indoor and outdoor).
We encourage you to visit www.commscope.com to learn more about:
•

RUCKUS Wi-Fi Access Points

•

RUCKUS ICX switches

•

RUCKUS Cloud management software

•

SYSTIMAX and NETCONNECT: Structured cabling solutions (copper and fiber)

•

mVision: Automated Infrastructure Management

•

Era and OneCell: In-building cellular solutions

•

Our extensive experience about supporting PoE and IoT

CommScope pushes the boundaries of communications technology with game-changing ideas
and ground-breaking discoveries that spark profound human achievement. We collaborate with our
customers and partners to design, create and build the world’s most advanced networks. It is our
passion and commitment to identify the next opportunity and realize a better tomorrow. Discover more
at commscope.com

commscope.com
Visit our website or contact your local CommScope representative for more information.
© 2020 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved.
Unless otherwise noted, all trademarks identified by ® or ™ are registered trademarks, respectively, of CommScope, Inc. This document is for planning purposes only and is not intended to
modify or supplement any specifications or warranties relating to CommScope products or services. CommScope is committed to the highest standards of business integrity and environmental
sustainability with a number of CommScope’s facilities across the globe certified in accordance with international standards, including ISO 9001, TL 9000, and ISO 14001.
Further information regarding CommScope’s commitment can be found at www.commscope.com/About-Us/Corporate-Responsibility-and-Sustainability.
CO-113779.1-EN (05/20)

