The RUCKUS® optics advantage
The value of RUCKUS optics

The risk of deploying third party optics

Optics are critical components that can make or break your network.

Unlike RUCKUS, third party vendors do not test their optics with

The quality of the optics you deploy will dramatically affect the overall

the entire line of RUCKUS ICX switches. Only limited testing with a

performance and reliability of your entire network. When you deploy

few RUCKUS switches is conducted to claim compatibility.

RUCKUS optics with RUCKUS switches, you are guaranteed the best

RUCKUS cannot guarantee third party optics will work reliably with

user experience. RUCKUS cannot make the same guarantees with

RUCKUS switches.

third party optics.

of equipment damage: A low quality or defective third-party optic could
· Risk
be running hot or cause an electrical surge that can damage the switch, voiding

TAC experience: Single point of support for switches and optics
· Streamlined
enables fastest problem resolution and minimizes downtime
reliability: We select the best optical transceivers from the top tier
· Highest
vendors to insure the highest reliability.

compatibility: We test every RUCKUS optic with every RUCKUS
· Guaranteed
switch to insure full compatibility. RUCKUS switches are tuned to deliver the best
performance with RUCKUS optics.

compliance: All our optics are tested for compliance with the latest industry
· Full
standards.

certifications: Every RUCKUS optic has been certified with US and
· International
international safety agencies to comply with the latest country laws and regulations.

· Warranty: RUCKUS optics come with a five-year warranty for peace of mind.
For the best performance, reliability,
compliance and support experience,
deploy RUCKUS optics with your
RUCKUS switches!

the warranty for the customer.

risk: Optics might not operate with the specific ICX model you
· Compatibility
acquired or might stop working after a switch software update.

risk: Without proper certification by safety agencies, the laser could be
· Safety
running too hot or too cold creating a safety hazard.

risk: The quality of the optical transceiver could be lacking,
· Reliability
introducing issues such as out of specs power dissipation, noise tolerance, or bit
rate error resulting in data loss.

issues: Stacking links require tighter tolerance to operate properly.
· Stacking
RUCKUS cannot guarantee stacking will function reliably with third party optics
or cables. This is a common issue with third party transceivers.

of consistency: Third party vendors frequently switch suppliers without
· Lack
running extensive re-certification or qualification plans. The transceivers
you received last time might differ greatly from the ones you will get with your
next order.

© 2022 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved. | CO-115248.1-EN (10/22)

